It was very nice talking to you today. I believe that you could be a great fit for the Senior Programmer Analyst position at Center for Infection and Immunity (CII). We ask the candidates to do a programming assignment before proceeding with the next steps. Doing so gives you a chance to show off your skills and gives us a chance to evaluate your code writing and problem solving skills.

The main focus at CII is microbial diagnostics, surveillance and discovery in acute and chronic illnesses using high throughput platforms. In addition, the bioinformaticians, in collaboration with scientists, drive and support research in the fields of serology, microbiomics, host response and biomarker discovery in large scale projects from human and wildlife, chronic fatigue syndrome/myalgic encephalomyelitis and neurodevelopment disorders. There are great opportunities for working on high throughput platforms such as Next Generation Sequencing (NGS), Microarrays, Proteomics, Metabolomics and Transcriptomics.

The pipelines for different sequencing platforms use blast extensively to query sequences against a given database. One of the steps, in an earlier version of a pipeline, heavily relied on blasting to eliminate primer and adaptor sequences from the reads to generate clean and manageable datasets . You are provided with fasta and quality files from a dataset that was generated using 454 sequencing platform. You are required to blast the dataset against the given primer and adaptor sequences and generate output in m8 format.

You need to write a small program using a programming language of your choice that will take:

a) Fasta and quality files containing the reads and corresponding quality scores. You can download the files from the link below. Please let me know if there are problems in downloading files.

https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BzTpYi_vYHmldXZfbGRYNHkzaVE/edit?usp=sharing

b) Adaptor and primer sequences are:

Primer Sequence:CGCCGTTTCCCAGTAGGTCTC
Adaptor Sequence:ACTGAGTGGGAGGCAAGGCACACAGGGGATAGG

The program should generate the following output:

1) Total number of reads in the dataset
2) Total number of reads greater than 100 bp
3) Total number of reads with average quality scores greater than 20
4) Total number of reads with primer sequences
5) Total number of reads with adaptor sequences
6) Total number of reads with both primer and adaptor sequences

In addition, your program needs to generate the following files:

1) Blast output file in m8 format.
2) Fasta file containing reads greater than 100bp, average read quality scores greater than 20, primers and adaptors trimmed.
3) Tab de-limited text file containing the read identifiers along with the starting and end positions of the primer or adaptor sequences.

Please tar and gzip your program along with a README file and email it. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions.
